Application of Adversarial Attacks on Malware Detection Models:
Malware detection is vital as it ensures that a computer is safe from any kind of malicious software that puts users at risk. Too many variants of these malicious software are being introduced everyday at increased speed. Thus, to guarantee security of computer systems, huge advancements in the field of malware detection are made and one such approach is to use machine learning for malware detection. Even though machine learning is very powerful, it is prone to adversarial attacks. In this project, we will try to apply adversarial attacks on malware detection models. To perform these attacks, fake samples that are generated using Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) algorithm are used and these fake malware data along with the actual data is given to a machine learning model for malware detection. Here, we will also be experimenting with the percentage of fake malware samples to be considered and observe the behavior of the model according to the given input. The novelty of this project is given by the use of adversarial samples that are generated by the implementation of word embeddings produced by our generative algorithms

Malware: Detection and Defense:
In today’s cyber security landscape, companies are facing increasing pressure to protect their data and systems from malicious attackers. As a result, there has been a significant rise in the number of security solutions that can identify malware. But how do you know if an image file is infected with malware? How can you prevent it from running? This blog post covers everything you need to know about malware in your images and how to prevent them from running. The malware will allow the attacker or un-legitimate user to enter the system without being recognized as a valid user. In this paper, we will look at how malware can hide within images and transfer between computers in the background of any system. In addition, we will describe how deep transfer learning can detect malware hidden beneath images in this paper. In addition, we will compare multiple kernel models for detecting malicious images. We also highly suggest which model should be used by the system for detecting malware

Fisher exact Boschloo and polynomial vector learning for malware detection:
Computer technology shows swift progress that has infiltrated people’s lives with the candidness and pliability of computers to work ease shows security breaches. Thus, malware detection methods perform modifications in running the malware based on behavioral and content factors. The factors are taken into consideration compromises of convergence rate and speed. This research paper proposed a method called fisher exact Boschloo and polynomial vector learning (FEB-PVL) to perform both content and behavioral-based malware detection with early convergence to speed up the process. First, the input dataset is provided as input then fisher exact Boschloo’s test Bernoulli feature extraction model is applied to obtain independent observations of two binary variables. Next, the extracted network features form input to polynomial regression support vector learning to different malware classes from benign classes. The proposed method validates the results with respect to the malware and the benign files. The present research aimed to develop the behaviors to detect the accuracy process of the features that have minimum time speeds the overall performances. The proposed FEB-PVL increases the true positive rate and reduces the false positive rate and hence increasing the precision rate using FEB-PVL by 7% compared to existing approaches

Natural language based malicious domain detection using machine learning and deep learning:
Cyberattacks are still challenging since they are increasing day by day. Cybercriminals employ a variety of strategies to manipulate and exploit their targets vulnerabilities. Malicious URLs are one such strategy which is used to target

large groups on various social media platforms. To draw internet users, these web addresses are disguised as being safe. Deliberate or inadvertent use of such URLs exposes the user or the organization in the cyberspace and opens the way for further attacks. Systems that use rules-based or machine learning algorithms to find malicious URLs usually rely on feature engineering. This requires domain expertise and experience. Sometimes, even after extracting features from a dataset, it may not completely leverage the potential of the dataset. The proposed method employs Natural Language Processing (NLP) approaches to vectorize the words in the URLs and applies machine learning and deep learning models

for classification. Vectorization technique in NLP reduces the effort of feature engineering and maximizing the use of the dataset. For the experiment, two separate datasets are used. To vectorize the URL text, three different vectorization methods are used. To evaluate the performance of the proposed method, two different datasets (D1 and D2) that are

regularly utilized in the research domain were used. The results demonstrate that the superior accuracy of 92.4 % with the D1 dataset is achieved by the Decision Tree (DT) with count vectorizer and the Random Forest (RF) with Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF) vectorizer. With the D2 dataset, DT with TF-IDF vectorizer obtains a greater accuracy of 99.5 %. The Artificial Neural Network (ANN) model achieves 89.6 % accuracy with the D1 dataset and 99.2 % accuracy with the D2 dataset

Leveraging Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Enhanced Cybersecurity: A Proposal to Defeat Malware:
Cybersecurity is very crucial in the digital age in order to safeguard the availability, confidentiality, and integrity of data and systems. Mitigation techniques used in the industry include Multi-factor Authentication (MFA), Incident Response Planning (IRP), Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), and Signature-based and Heuristic Detection.
MFA is employed as an additional layer of protection in several sectors to help prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data. IRP is a plan in place to address cybersecurity problems efficiently and expeditiously. SIEM offers real-time analysis and alerts the system of threats and vulnerabilities. Heuristic-based detection relies on detecting anomalies when it comes to the behavior of files and domains, whereas signature-based detection uses predefined malware codes and known signatures to help identify malware.
Artificial intelligence along with machine learning could enhance cyber detection and response by utilizing a vast amount of data and algorithms to help identify trends, make predictions, and take actions without human supervision. This paper discusses how this proposal can be accomplished and could help defeat malware

Obfuscated Malware Detection in IoT Android Applications Using Markov Images and CNN:
The file attached to this record is the author's final peer reviewed version. The Publisher's final version can be found by following the DOI linkThe threat of malware in the Internet of Things (IoT) is ever-present given that many IoT systems today rely on the Android operating system. There has been a consistent rise in Android malware recently, with new variants adopting sophisticated detection avoidance techniques, including various forms of obfuscation. Hence, there is a need to improve the effectiveness of Android malware detection as obfuscation becomes more prevalent in the wild. In this article, we present a novel approach for obfuscated malware detection in IoT Android applications based on the visualization of app executables with Markov images. The app images are trained using a convolutional neural network (CNN) to detect obfuscated malware and for the identification of the obfuscation type. We evaluate the performance of the proposed system by experimenting with four different classification models using 12000 Android applications. The CNN model created to distinguish between malware and benign apps obtained an accuracy of 99.41%. The model for identifying obfuscated malware from benign applications obtained 99.65% accuracy while the model created to identify obfuscated malware from non-obfuscated malware yielded an accuracy of 99.81%. The model for classifying obfuscated malware into 14 different obfuscation categories obtained an accuracy of 99.67%. These results show that CNN models trained from Markov images generated using application byte code can be highly effective for obfuscated malware detection and classification. Moreover, our proposed system provides a more sustainable and cost-effective method for obfuscated malware detection compared to the manual feature-engineering-based approaches that are more prevalent in the current literature

Malware Classification using Graph Neural Networks:
Word embeddings are widely recognized as important in natural language pro- cessing for capturing semantic relationships between words. In this study, we conduct experiments to explore the effectiveness of word embedding techniques in classifying malware. Specifically, we evaluate the performance of Graph Neural Network (GNN) applied to knowledge graphs constructed from opcode sequences of malware files. In the first set of experiments, Graph Convolution Network (GCN) is applied to knowledge graphs built with different word embedding techniques such as Bag-of-words, TF-IDF, and Word2Vec. Our results indicate that Word2Vec produces the most effective word embeddings, serving as a baseline for comparison with three GNN models- Graph Convolution network, Graph Attention network (GAT), and GraphSAGE network
(GraphSAGE). For the next set of experiments, we generate vector embeddings of various lengths using Word2Vec and construct knowledge graphs with these embed- dings as node features. Through performance comparison of the GNN models, we show that larger vector embeddings improve the models’ performance in classifying the malware files into their respective families. Our experiments demonstrate that word embedding techniques can enhance feature engineering in malware analysis

PAD: Towards Principled Adversarial Malware Detection Against Evasion
Attacks:
Machine Learning (ML) techniques can facilitate the automation of malicious
software (malware for short) detection, but suffer from evasion attacks. Many
studies counter such attacks in heuristic manners, lacking theoretical
guarantees and defense effectiveness. In this paper, we propose a new
adversarial training framework, termed Principled Adversarial Malware Detection
(PAD), which offers convergence guarantees for robust optimization methods. PAD
lays on a learnable convex measurement that quantifies distribution-wise
discrete perturbations to protect malware detectors from adversaries, whereby
for smooth detectors, adversarial training can be performed with theoretical
treatments. To promote defense effectiveness, we propose a new mixture of
attacks to instantiate PAD to enhance deep neural network-based measurements
and malware detectors. Experimental results on two Android malware datasets
demonstrate: (i) the proposed method significantly outperforms the
state-of-the-art defenses; (ii) it can harden ML-based malware detection
against 27 evasion attacks with detection accuracies greater than 83.45%, at
the price of suffering an accuracy decrease smaller than 2.16% in the absence
of attacks; (iii) it matches or outperforms many anti-malware scanners in
VirusTotal against realistic adversarial malware.Comment: Accepted by IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing; To
appea

StratDef: Strategic Defense Against Adversarial Attacks in ML-based
Malware Detection:
Over the years, most research towards defenses against adversarial attacks on
machine learning models has been in the image recognition domain. The malware
detection domain has received less attention despite its importance. Moreover,
most work exploring these defenses has focused on several methods but with no
strategy when applying them. In this paper, we introduce StratDef, which is a
strategic defense system based on a moving target defense approach. We overcome
challenges related to the systematic construction, selection, and strategic use
of models to maximize adversarial robustness. StratDef dynamically and
strategically chooses the best models to increase the uncertainty for the
attacker while minimizing critical aspects in the adversarial ML domain, like
attack transferability. We provide the first comprehensive evaluation of
defenses against adversarial attacks on machine learning for malware detection,
where our threat model explores different levels of threat, attacker knowledge,
capabilities, and attack intensities. We show that StratDef performs better
than other defenses even when facing the peak adversarial threat. We also show
that, of the existing defenses, only a few adversarially-trained models provide
substantially better protection than just using vanilla models but are still
outperformed by StratDef

Detecting network attacks model based on a convolutional neural network:
Due to the increasing use of networks at present, Internet systems have raised many security problems, and statistics indicate that the rate of attacks or intrusions has increased excessively annually, and in the event of any malicious attack on network vulnerabilities or information systems, it may lead to serious disasters, violating policies on network security, i.e., “confidentiality, integrity, and availability” (CIA). Therefore, many detection systems, such as the intrusion detection system, appeared. In this paper, we built a system that detects network attacks using the latest machine learning algorithms and a convolutional neural network based on a dataset of the CSE-CIC-IDS2018. It is a recent dataset that contains a set of common and recent attacks. The detection rate is 99.7%, distinguishing between aggressive attacks and natural assertiveness

Reliable Machine Learning Model for IIoT Botnet Detection:
Due to the growing number of Internet of Things (IoT) devices, network attacks like denial of service (DoS) and floods are rising for security and reliability issues. As a result of these attacks, IoT devices suffer from denial of service and network disruption. Researchers have implemented different techniques to identify attacks aimed at vulnerable Internet of Things (IoT) devices. In this study, we propose a novel features selection algorithm FGOA-kNN based on a hybrid filter and wrapper selection approaches to select the most relevant features. The novel approach integrated with clustering rank the features and then applies the Grasshopper algorithm (GOA) to minimize the top-ranked features. Moreover, a proposed algorithm, IHHO, selects and adapts the neural network’s hyper parameters to detect botnets efficiently. The proposed Harris Hawks algorithm is enhanced with three improvements to improve the global search process for optimal solutions. To tackle the problem of population diversity, a chaotic map function is utilized for initialization. The escape energy of hawks is updated with a new nonlinear formula to avoid the local minima and better balance between exploration and exploitation. Furthermore, the exploitation phase of HHO is enhanced using a new elite operator ROBL. The proposed model combines unsupervised, clustering, and supervised approaches to detect intrusion behaviors. The N-BaIoT dataset is utilized to validate the proposed model. Many recent techniques were used to assess and compare the proposed model’s performance. The result demonstrates that the proposed model is better than other variations at detecting multiclass botnet attacks

Machine Learning-Based Algorithms for the Detection of Leaf Disease in Agriculture Crops:
Identifying plant leaves early on is key to preventing catastrophic outbreaks. An important studyarea is automatic disease detection in plants. Fungi, bacteria, and viruses are the main culprits in most plantillnesses. The process of choosing a classification method is always challenging because the quality of the results can differ depending on the input data. K-Nearest Neighbor Classifier (KNN), Probabilistic NeuralNetwork (PNN), Genetic Algorithm, Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Principal Component Analysis,Artificial Neural Network (ANN), and Fuzzy Logic are a few examples of diverse classification algorithms.Classifications of plant leaf diseases have many uses in a variety of industries, including agriculture andbiological research. Presymptomatic diagnosis and crop health information can aid in the ability to managepathogens through proper management approaches. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are the mostwidely used DL models for computer vision issues since they have proven to be very effective in tasks likepicture categorization, object detection, image segmentation, etc. The experimental findings demonstrate theproposed model's superior performance to pre-trained models such as VGG16 and InceptionV3. The range ofcategorization accuracy is 76% to 100%, based on

Exploring machine learning techniques for fake profile detection in online social networks:
The online social network is the largest network, more than 4 billion users use social media and with its rapid growth, the risk of maintaining the integrity of data has tremendously increased. There are several kinds of security challenges in online social networks (OSNs). Many abominable behaviors try to hack social sites and misuse the data available on these sites. Therefore, protection against such behaviors has become an essential requirement. Though there are many types of security threats in online social networks but, one of the significant threats is the fake profile. Fake profiles are created intentionally with certain motives, and such profiles may be targeted to steal or acquire sensitive information and/or spread rumors on online social networks with specific motives. Fake profiles are primarily used to steal or extract information by means of friendly interaction online and/or misusing online data available on social sites. Thus, fake profile detection in social media networks is attracting the attention of researchers. This paper aims to discuss various machine learning (ML) methods used by researchers for fake profile detection to explore the further possibility of improvising the machine learning models for speedy results

Using machine learning to predict smartphone usage:
Abstract. This thesis shows the process of creating and analyzing a machine-learning model. It goes over prevalent classification algorithms and their advantages and disadvantages. Furthermore, techniques and metrics used to evaluate the performance of the model are introduced. In the latter part of the thesis, a Random Forest model is implemented. The objective was to predict the participants’ smartphone usage, more specifically the category of an application they had opened. This starts with a pre-processing phase, where relevant information is extracted from the raw data. Multiple variations of the model are built, and the best-performing model was able to achieve 63.37% accuracy. Additionally, the features are scored to provide more insight into the model. The thesis ends with a brief discussion section, which contemplates the reasons behind the results, some of the model’s deficiencies and how it could be improved

ANALISIS TROJAN DAN SPYWARE MENGGUNAKAN METODE HYBRID ANALYSIS:
Malicious Software or malware is software created to damage a computer system. The increase in internet users is also in line with the increase in the use of software. However, there are still many users who still use pirated software because it is relatively free and easy to obtain. Pirated software is usually embedded with dangerous malware such as Trojans and spyware. All crimes of spreading this malware are always related to stealing credit card information, internet banking and other cybercrimes. To prove that the software installed and used on a computer is malicious software, digital forensics is required by analyzing the software. Hybrid analysis technique is a combination of static and dynamic analysis which is suitable for analyzing malware activity. Based on the results of the analysis that has been carried out, the ryuk.bin trojan has evolved and the malware forms new malware files when it is run and also changes and destroys the original files on the system

A survey of network intrusion detection systems based on deep learning approaches:
Currently, most IT organizations are inclined towards a cloud computing environment because of its distributed and scalable nature. However, its flexible and open architecture is receiving lots of attention from potential intruders for cyber threats. Here, Intrusion Detection System (IDS) plays a significant role in monitoring malicious activities in

cloud-based systems. The state of the art of this paper is to systematically review the existing methods for detecting intrusions based upon various techniques, such as data mining, machine learning, and deep learning methods. Recently, deep learning techniques have gained momentum in the intrusion detection domain, and several IDS approaches are provided in the literature using various deep learning techniques to deal with privacy concerns and security threats. For this purpose, the article focuses on the deep IDS approaches and investigates how deep learning networks are employed by different approaches in various steps of the intrusion detection process to achieve better results. Then, it provided a

comparison of the deep learning approaches and the shallow machine learning methods. Also, it describes datasets that are most used in IDS

Evading Antivirus Software Detection Using Python and PowerShell Obfuscation Framework:
Avoiding antivirus detection in penetration testing activities is quite complex. The simplest, most effective, and most efficient way is by obfuscating malicious code. However, the obfuscation process will also be very complex and time-consuming if done manually. To solve this problem, there are many tools or frameworks on the internet that can automate the obfuscation process, but how effective are the obfuscation tools to evade antivirus detection. This paper aims to provide an overview of the effectiveness of the obfuscation framework in avoiding antivirus detection